Improve documentation for cache functions (#654)
solidjs/solid-docs-next: src/routes/solid-router/reference/data-apis/cache.mdx

title: cache
---

## `cache`

> `cache` is a [higher-order function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higher-order_function) that creates a function with the same signature as the function you passed to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cache` is a [higher-order function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higher-order_function) that creates a function with the same signature as the function passed to it.
```

> When you call the created function with a given set of arguments for the first time, your original function is run and its return value is both stored in a cache and returned to the caller of the created function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When created function is called with a given set of arguments for the first time, the original function is run and its return value is both stored in a cache and returned to the caller of the created function.
```

> When you call the created function with the same arguments again before the cache becomes stale, your original function is not re-run—you instead immediately receive the previous return value stored in the cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the created function is called with the same arguments before the cache becomes stale, the original function is not re-run — instead, it will receive the previous return value stored in the cache.
```

> A common use case is to wrap network calls so that duplicate fetches for the same data in quick succession can be avoided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

As an example, wrapping network calls with `cache` can help prevent duplicate fetches of identical data from occurring in quick succession.
```

> This cache accomplishes the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cache` accomplishes the following:
```

   Any user based navigation or link click bypasses it.
   Upon revalidation or new fetch the cache is updated.

> ### Arguments

Reviewer: Please move this section to after Examples, please. It should be a similar layout to [this one](https://docs.solidjs.com/reference/components/suspense-list)

| argument | type | description |
| -------- | ---- | ----------- |

> | fn | `(...args: any) => any` | A function whose return value you'd like to be cached. This function can have any arguments you'd like, and the arguments will be deterministically serialized and used as part of the unique key for the cache. This serialization process uses `JSON.stringify`, but first sorts the key/value pairs of objects to ensure `{ name: 'Ryan', awesome: true }` serializes to the same value as `{ awesome: true, name: 'Ryan' }`. |

Reviewer: Too much information for the table - can you please pull it out and put it into the beginning section. They should be ~ one sentence (two as an absolute maximum) in the table.

> | name | string | Any arbitrary string that you'd like to use as the rest of the cache key. Because the cache used internally by `cache` is shared by all cached functions, this string should be unique for each unique function passed to `cache`. If you instead use the same key for two different cached functions, it's possible that one will give you back the return value from the other. |

Reviewer: Same comment as above.

### Return Value

> The return value is a `CachedFunction`, a function that has the same signature as the function you passed to `cache`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return value is a `CachedFunction`, a function that has the same signature as the function passed to `cache`.
```

> This cached function stores the return value (using the cache key as described above) and temporarily avoids re-running the passed function again for the same set of arguments under most circumstances, even if you call the created function multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This cached function stores the return value using the cache key. 
Under most circumstances, this temporarily prevents the passed function from running with the same arguments, even if the created function is called repeatedly.
```

> The returned function also has `key` and `keyFor` properties, described below.

Reviewer: This example will break suggestions but can you include this here please.

```suggestion
### `.key` and `.keyFor`

Cached functions provide `.key` and `.keyFor`, which are useful when retrieving the keys used in cases involving invalidation:

```ts
let id = 5;
getUser.key; // returns "users"
getUser.keyFor(id); // returns "users[5]"
```

```

}
```

<Callout>
  `cache` can be defined anywhere and then used inside your components with [`createAsync`](/solid-router/reference/data-apis/create-async).

However, using `cache` directly in [`createResource`](/reference/basic-reactivity/create-resource) will not work since the fetcher is not reactive and will not invalidate properly.

</Callout>

> ### `CachedFunction.keyFor` and `CachedFunction.key`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> Cached functions provide a property and method useful for getting the key that can be used in cases with invalidation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```ts

Reviewer: Please remove this example since it's now above.
